
Artifacts
#########

Artifacts are used to record milestones, state, objects, and change created by a chain. Artifacts
provide a reference point to interact with these results in subsequent chains. Artifacts may be saved
explicitly with ``SaveArtifact`` and then referenced with ``ArtifactMemory``.

Artifact Memory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

ArtifactMemory loads an artifact from the database and loads it into the prompt as an input.

.. code-block:: python

    ARTIFACT_MEMORY = {
        "class_path": "ix.memory.artifacts.ArtifactMemory",
        "config": {
            "load_artifact": True
            "input_key": "artifact_keys",
            "memory_key": "related_artifacts",
        }
    }

``ArtifactMemory`` will read from ``input_key`` and load the artifact into ``memory_key``, if ``load_artifact`` is set
to ``True``.  Prompts can then output the formatted artifact using ``memory_key``.

The prompt should include ``memory_key`` to render the output.

.. code-block:: python

    PROMPT = """
    {related_artifacts}

    Tell me about the artifact [{artifact_keys}]
    """

Prompt will be rendered with the artifact information.


.. code-block:: text

    RELATED ARTIFACTS

    id: 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000
    key: my_key
    type: my_type
    name: my_name
    description: my_description
    data:
    data stored in artifact

    Tell me about the artifacts [{my_key}]

Artifact memory matches based on ``artifact_key``. If there are multiple objects with the same key, then the most
recent object is used.


Artifact Memory Scope
---------------------

Artifact memory scope is limited to the current chat.



Artifact Chains
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Chains that integrate with the artifact system.

SaveArtifact
------------

SaveArtifact saves an artifact to the database. The artifact properties
may be generated by an LLM, chain, or generated statically.

Artifact Import:

-   ``artifact_from_key``: The key to load the artifact from. Any properties defined in the artifact will be saved on the artifact. Static values will override these values.
Static Attributes:
Static attributes may be defined to override attributes loaded from an artifact.
If not loading from an artifact, then all attributes are required.

-   ``artifact_key``: The key to save the artifact under. This key may be used to reference the artifact in subsequent requests.
-   ``artifact_type``: The type of artifact to save. This is used to determine how the artifact is stored and displayed.
-   ``artifact_name``: The name of the artifact to save.
-   ``artifact_description``: The description of the artifact to save.

Storage:
Artifacts may also be optionally saved to a storage backend. Define
``artifact_storage`` to define the storage function.

-   ``artifact_storage``: The storage to use for the artifact. This is used to determine how the artifact is stored and how it may be queried.
-   ``artifact_storage_id``: The storage id to use for the artifact. This may be a database id, file path, or other identifier depending on the storage type.

Input / Output:

-  ``content_key``: The key to load the content from. This is automatically set as an input_variable
-  ``content_path``: jsonpath relative to ``inputs`` for content to save. This is used to extract a subset of the content to save. If not set, the entire content at ``content_key``.
-  ``output_key``: The key to save the artifact under. This key may be used to reference the artifact in subsequent requests.

Artifact format:

``Artifact`` when represented as a dictionary have the following format. Fields
values may be generated by the chain or set statically by the config.

.. code-block:: python

    {
        "key": "my_key",
        "type": "my_type",
        "name": "my_name",
        "description": "my_description",
        "storage": "my_storage",           # Optional
        "storage_id": "my_storage_id",     # Required with storage
        "data": "my_data",                 # Optional
    }


Saving an existing artifact:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
``Artifact`` dicts may be generated by a chain and then passed to ``SaveArtifact``.


.. code-block:: python

    # This example assumes that name, key, description are loaded from ``file_artifact``
    # remaining attributes are set statically.
    SAVE_ARTIFACT = {
        "class_path": "ix.chains.artifacts.SaveArtifact",
        "config" : {
            "artifact_from_key": "file_artifact",     # Artifact input
            "artifact_type": "file",                  # static type
            "artifact_storage": "write_to_file",      # static storage
            "content_key": "generated_file_json",     # content input
            "output_key": "generated_file_artifact",  # artifact output
        }
    }

    # create node
    root = ChainNode.objects.create(**PARSE_JSON_CONFIG)




Statically defining artifact properties:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
``Artifact`` dicts may be generated by a chain and then passed to ``SaveArtifact``.


.. code-block:: python

    # everything but content and identifier is statically defined
    SAVE_STATIC_ARTIFACT = {
        "class_path": "ix.chains.artifacts.SaveArtifact",
        "config": {
            "artifact_key": "file_list",
            "artifact_name": "file_list",
            "artifact_description": "list of files that will be generated",
            "artifact_type": "artifact_list",
            "content_key": "file_artifacts_json",
            "output_key": "file_artifacts_list",
        },
    }

    # create node
    root = ChainNode.objects.create(**PARSE_JSON_CONFIG)





Extracting content with a jsonpath:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set ``content_path`` to extract a subset of the content to save. If not set,
the entire content at ``content_key`` will be saved.

.. code-block:: python

    SAVE_ARTIFACT = {
        "class_path": "ix.chains.artifacts.SaveArtifact",
        "config" : {
            "content_key": "generated_file_json",
            "content_path": "generated_file_json.data",
        }
    }

    # create node
    root = ChainNode.objects.create(**PARSE_JSON_CONFIG)
